.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -mdoc -Tascii checksec.1
.Dd February 2026
.Dt CHECKSEC 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm checksec
.Nd check executable and kernel security properties
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl -help
.Op Fl -version
.Op Fl -output Ar table|xml|json|yaml
.Op Fl -libc Ar path
.Op Fl -no-banner
.Op Fl -no-headers
.Ar command
.Op Ar command-options
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a security-checking tool for binaries, running processes, and kernel settings.
.Pp
Since
.Sy v3.0.0 ,
.Nm
uses a subcommand-based CLI. This is a breaking change from the older v2/bash-style interface.
.Sh GLOBAL OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl h , Fl -help
Display help and exit.
.It Fl v , Fl -version
Show version and exit.
.It Fl o , Fl -output Ns = Ns Ar table|xml|json|yaml
Set output format. Default is
.Sy table .
.It Fl l , Fl -libc Ns = Ns Ar path
Set libc location (useful for
.Sy fortify
checks on offline/embedded filesystems).
.It Fl -no-banner
Disable the startup banner.
.It Fl -no-headers
Disable table headers.
.El
.Sh COMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm file Ar path
Check security properties for a single binary file.
.It Cm dir Ar directory
Check security properties for binary files in a directory.
Use
.Fl r
or
.Fl -recursive
to recurse into subdirectories.
.It Cm fortifyFile Ar path
Check FORTIFY information for a binary file.
.It Cm fortifyProc Ar pid
Check FORTIFY information for a running process.
.It Cm kernel Op Ar config
Check kernel security flags.
If
.Ar config
is provided, use that kernel config file.
.It Cm proc Ar pid
Check security properties for a running process.
.It Cm procAll
Check security properties for all running processes.
.El
.Sh COMPATIBILITY NOTES
.Bl -bullet
.It
The legacy v2/bash options such as
.Sy --file ,
.Sy --dir ,
and
.Sy --proc-all
are not the primary v3 interface.
.It
Use v3 subcommands instead (for example,
.Sy checksec file /path/to/bin
or
.Sy checksec procAll ) .
.It
If you want compact output similar to older invocations, use
.Sy --no-banner
(and optionally
.Sy --no-headers ) .
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It
.Sy checksec file /bin/ls
.It
.Sy checksec --no-banner file /bin/ls
.It
.Sy checksec --output json dir /usr/bin
.It
.Sy checksec dir /usr/bin --recursive
.It
.Sy checksec proc 1
.It
.Sy checksec kernel
.It
.Sy checksec kernel /path/to/config
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr hardening-check 1
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
was originally written by
.An Tobias Klein .
The current project is maintained by
.An Brian Davis Aq Mt slimm609@gmail.com .
